=pod

=head1 University of Granada proposal for YAPC::EU 2014


=head2  University of Granada proposal for YAPC::EU 2014

The Free Software Office at the L<University of
Granada|http://www.ugr.es>, with the support of Madrid.pm and
Barcelona.pm presents this bid for YAPC::EU 2014.

=head3 Organizers

The L<OSL (Free Software Offfice)|http://osl.ugr.es> is led by L<JJ
Merelo|http://search.cpan.org/~jmerelo/>, with a longtime Perl
experience, founder of the mainly course-oriented Granada.pm (which
organizes virtual courses of L<basic Perl|http://cevug.ugr.es/perl>
and L<intermediate Perl| http://cevug.ugr.es/perl_avanzado> with a
long history and more than a dozen editions. Merelo has attended, and
made presentations, at the YAPC::EU 2002 and 2009 conferences, and
also attended and presented a paper at the 2013 FOSDEM Perl Devroom.

The OSL will have the support of the two strongest Perl Mongers group
in the Spanish state, Madrid.pm and Barcelona.pm, who will help with
anything that is not quintessentially local.

The key persons of the proposal would be:

=over 4

=item JJ Merelo, with experience organizing other events such as PPSN

2002 and ECAL 1995, in the evolutionary algorithm area. Also
collaboration with other conferences such as CEC 2011 or EvoStar, and
many events by the OSL, such as NotBarraLibreCamp

=item Members of the Madrid.pm and Barcelona.pm

=item Volunteers and other people attached to the L<OSL|http://osl.ugr.es/about/quienes-somos/>

=item Additional help from the L<IT delegation of the university of Granada|http://detic.ugr.es> and L<Computer Science School|http://etsiit.ugr.es>

=back

=head3 Contact

We will setup an address @ugr.es, but for the time being the contact
will be L<dirosl@ugr.es> (direction of the Free Software office)

=head2 Venue

We will hold it at the most convenient place at the L<University of
Granada|http://www.ugr.es>, with campus all over the city of Granada
(Spain). Granada includes such beauties as the Alhambra and the most
beautiful grafittis of all the country.

We have pre-acceptance for holding it at the
L<ETSIIT|http://etsiit.ugr.es> Computer Science School, which is
in the outskirts of the city but has all the facilities needed for
a multi-room conference and is, anyways, well communicated with
the rest of the city.

Granada is linked to Madrid, London and Barcelona by regular daily and
frequent flights and also to Mallorca and to other places (but flight
frequencies vary often). Málaga is one hour away by car or 2 hours by
bus and is linked to all major European cities. There are buses and
trains to Madrid and Seville, but coach is always the best option
outside the plane.

The ETSIIT is linked to the city center (with many lodging options) by
several buses. Depending on the date, student residences might also be
available (July is the best date for that, since usual guests will be
on holiday).


=head3 Catering

The school has a relatively large cafeteria and a university mensa,
which can accomodate a good amount of hungry students. There are 250
sitting places, but buffer-style eating with sitting space outside the
cafeteria, including common areas and classes, can also be
arranged. The school cafeteria can provide the food itself for a good
price (from 17€ a sitting, served menu to less if it's standing around
tables).

Cheap beer-and tapas can be had around the school for 2€ beer + tapa
of choice, 4 beers (or non-alcoholic drinks) are enough for any hungry
monger.

=head2 Conference details

It's going to be, AFAIK, the southernmost conference, so this has
going to have nothing to do with the conference itself.

=head3 Date

Due to budgetary reasons, the university is locked during August;
closest we can make it is late July or early September. Late July has
the advantage of empty classrooms with no problem to schedule the
conference, while early September would be a little more problematic
(but no big deal for a 2 or 3 day conference), milder weather (but you
can still go to the beach) and good choice of accomodations (lower
touristic season, if there's such a thing in Granada).

=head3 Theme

We propose I<The art of Perl> as a theme for this conference. Perl
poetry has been all but forgotten, and, besides, the Fine Arts school
is close to the Computer Science school, so we might even attract some
of those free spirits to our conference.

=head2 Website

We will host it at the OSL servers, using Act! or other Perl toolkit
for creating websites. No PHP. I promise.

=head2 Auction

I remember keenly the promotion at YAPC 2002 where stuff like
optimization of opcodes was offered. We plan to offer that in Granada,
maybe including being painted by a local grafitti artist, a trip
through Granada tunnels, or a tapas crawl through local watering
holes with local experts (hard to find (really)).

We'll also look for Perl gurus memorabilia, camel hair underpants, and
onion jam. Or suchlike.

=head2 Promotion

The OSL maintains a presence in social networks (identi.ca, Twitter,
Facebook), and the people in the organization do have that too.
We would use email, local free software events (the Libre
Software World Conference is held yearly in Fall somewhere in
Spain), FOSDEM devrooms, and a sandwich man walking around
unconpicously around PHP and Python developer conferences.

=head2 Survey

We are developing an app for creating a personal schedule, and as in
past conferences, we'll use whatever people have scheduled
for creating a preference. Which will be probably for those
dressed as Star Trek fleet ensigns or anything that is not
simultaneous to talks by Damian, Brian or Mark.

=head2 Additional program

Granada offers a great amount of options for people from 2 to
22. Sorry, to 222. We'll organize a tapas crawl in the
best watering holes of Granada, artistic trips through the
grafitti art in Granada streets. And, yes, also Alhambra
and all those things. We'll also organize courses for those
interested and beginning courses in Spanish.

=head3 Courses

No innovation here. We'll provide space during or preferably before
the conference so that people that want to give tutorial or
courses can pay trip expenses giving them. The organization
will only collect a racket, sorry, a cut for, you know,
protection.

For a boost of visibility (or outing) of the Spanish Perl community,
we'll also provide courses in several levels in Spanish. Any
other languages can also be arranged.

=head3 Side trips

Anything can be arranged; we will contact a travel agency so that they
can offer packages for a good price. But the usual thing is:

=over 4

=item Alhambra + Generalife

=item Sunset in front of the Alhambra, through the world heritage quarter called Generalife

=item Renaissance in Granada: cathedral and other churches and palaces

=item Tapas crawl including fried fish, meat and everything you can include in a little dish.

=back

=head2 Budget

Now we're talking business. We will stick to the same costs as the
last conference. Venue is free, since it's organized as an
institutional (meaning university, as belonging to the
University of Granada) event. This will leave us some
leeway to give a better attendees dinner.

We are talking of a ballpark of 10K€. We will also apply to local
science funding agencies and the university to defray part of the
cost. The free software office will absorb any deficit (or, for
that matter, surplus) if there is one.

=head2 Sponsors

Granada is being pushed as a technological city by consortiums such as
L<On Granada Tech City|http://www.ongranada.com/>
which is supported by major technological companies and
local institutions.

We have contact with local tech companies will will be willing to help
with small quantities; we will have no minimum requirement for
sponsorship. Companies such as L<Codeko.com|http://codeko.com>
or L<Blulabs|http://blulabs.es> have supported OSL events in the
past. We will mainly look for direct support of tchochkes such
as t-shirts or bags.

Support will also be requested from institutions of all kinds. Being
the economy of Spain in the shape that it is, we don't
expect much from that, but we will do it anyways and have
obtained support in the past.

=head2 About Granada

=head2 Summary

=head2 Questions and answers


=cut
